welcome to the man of recaps this is the
walking dead world beyond episodes nine
and ten the two part season one finale
we begin with the conversation between
civic republic lieutenant colonel kublic
and huck who we found out is a spy more
than that the watch elizabeth gave her
is dad's last recap i said they were
sisters but clearly it's mom and
daughter we still really don't get much
info here except that one of the sisters
is the asset who they're trying to bring
to the civic republic for reasons it's
important that they bring her alone
remember the civic republic is all about
security no one can know where they are
so that night when huck is driving oh
she runs over the thing to crash the
truck as they're walking back to shelter
they run into some zombies and these
have barbed wire tied to them whoa
the sisters as usual struggle to take
out even one while huck can take out
multiple with one shot they all make it
out okay except felix who got cut by
some of the barbed wire on his ankle the
gang find shelter in this house looking
for something to patch up the tire with
huck looks in a room but immediately
closes the door like yo don't go in
there a bunch of dead bodies meanwhile
felix reminisces about his boyfriend
will who we've heard about but haven't
seen yet and he's a hottie remember will
went with the girl's dad on a security
detail to the civic public while felix
was left behind to watch over them
anyway they don't find tire fixing
supplies and they're going to try to go
it on foot but felix's ankle has hurt
worse than he realized the big dilemma
is they're on a time crunch to save
their dad they can't wait around for
felix's ankle to heal iris refuses to
leave felix behind so that night hope
goes to huck like hey
let's just sneak out in the night go it
alone this is exactly what huck planned
for in fact it was her who got felix's
ankle yes turns out hope is the sister
that's the asset and now they're finally
alone
but earlier iris came to hope with her
suspicions about huck for no good reason
she just felt like she couldn't trust
her so
hope started analyzing the civic
republic coded transmissions they found
and
it threw the most complicated cipher
ever of like finding the locations on a
map and spelling words out of it she
found out that
huck is a civic republic spy so in part
two hope pulls a gun on huck like hey
the jig's up pretty soon some zombies
show up so hope has to drop the gun and
work together to fight him back at the
campus colony huck had been training
hope and zombie killing and for the
first time she remembers her lessons she
actually does okay so now huck tries to
explain yes i'm a civic republican spy
but we're the good guys here the civic
republic is building civilization a
future for mankind
in fact huck reveals her father's fine
the message they sent that he was in
danger
was huck yes this whole adventure was
supposed to be a lot easier hope was
going to see the message be like irish
we got to go rescue him and iris was
going to say no that's crazy so then
hope would have come to huck huck would
have been like yeah let's go bing bang
boom they're off instead iris was
randomly feeling adventurous and silas
and elton wanted to come too so it's
been a whole mess but what makes hope so
special anyway well apparently she's
like a genius level smart yes in fact we
check in with her father at the civic
republic and he's having a great time
turns out he's dating the other
scientists we've seen in some of the end
credit scenes he reminisces to her about
however since hope was a little girl she
was just like super smart and stuff now
we haven't really seen genius level
intellect out of her except in episode
one she did brew a bunch of moonshine so
i guess that counts it was their dad
scientist girlfriend who told their
superiors about hope's supposedly genius
intellect she seems to be a true
believer in the civic republic but their
dad's having his doubts apparently
there's a civilian government that's
separate from the crm the civic republic
military he thinks they're hiding
something because will went out on a
security mission and hasn't come back
yet but in any case the civic republic
isn't messing around if the rest of the
group
finds them they will kill them so the
best way to protect her friends is for
hope to cooperate and go with huck
meanwhile elton has left the group to go
find his best friend silas he's still in
all emo because he just learned that his
mom killed hope and irish's mom with the
outbreak of the zombie
apocalypse and then hope killed her he
starts tearing up his manuscript in a
fit of rage but then feels bad and
clucks the pages anyway he soon finds
not silas but
percy who we didn't know what it
happened to he's grievously injured and
elton has an imaginary conversation with
him while he's trying to patch him up he
soon realizes though that his wounds
aren't from silas's wrench he was shot
mystery when some zombies show up
imaginary percy's like hey man you just
gotta leave me but elton refuses to do
that he's gonna fight
and it's not that impressive but he does
manage to take out some zombies
meanwhile silas is enjoying his solo
time and the zombie apocalypse having a
nice little
squirrel barbecue pretty soon though
elton tracks him down with percy in a
wheelbarrow it's like hey congrats man
you didn't go blackout drunk crazy and
kill two people
percy's alive and it wasn't even you he
was shot and when percy finally woke up
he revealed it was huck they've got to
go warn the group huck's a traitor but
just then some crm troops come in
oh they gotta hide they're sneaking
through the fence but percy's bleeding
everywhere they're gonna follow the
trail so silas sends them on ahead cuts
himself like hey i'll turn myself in and
you guys can escape
back at the house iris reveals her
suspicions about huck 2 felix and it's
like hey there's the one room that only
she checked and indeed inside is perfect
ankle fixing medicine
and tire fixing stuff convenient so
felix and iris now know hux a traitor
they patch up the wheel and he teaches
her how to drive stick
then they're off to chase him down they
soon catch up to him and hugs planet
cool but felix knows she's lying so they
have a big old fight
knocked over the lantern so there's fire
everywhere and whoa these guys going out
at
sticks in the end it is huck who has the
upper hand she's like sorry man i didn't
want to have to do this but then bam
a shot rings out hope got the gun but
she didn't shoot tuck she points it at
herself
it's like yeah i guess i'm a super
genius or something so you can't let me
die let felix and iris go so they say
their goodbyes hopes like sorry sis
they'll never stop coming after me this
is for the best what's unclear about
this whole situation is why they didn't
just invite hope to go over there and
work with their dad it seems like that
would have been easier but maybe there's
more to the story and so huck and hope
make it to the crm helicopter rendezvous
it's like hey good job daughter you did
it hope you're gonna have a great time
with us but she's like yo you left a lot
of loose ends though we already picked
up silas and we're hunting down the
other kids huck's like yo they're not a
threat just let them go back to the
campus colony and it's like oof
chuck doesn't know yet that the campus
colony was massacred but for now her mom
brushes that aside like we'll talk about
it next season so now elton and percy
are on their own hoping to meet up with
the rest of the crew elton's feeling
optimistic again he's like i know we'll
succeed i no longer believe we're the
end of the species i think we're the
beginning iris is feeling real
optimistic too like hey we're going to
take down the crm
i just know it turns out it's not fully
blind optimism she had a secret
conversation with her sister hope is
like yosis they think i'm the asset
cause i'm some super genius but what
they don't realize
is that you are always right there with
me together we're an unstoppable force
and i'm gonna play nice for now but the
civic republic is evil
we're gonna take them down but now in
the woods someone's coming who is this
it is felix's boyfriend will they
embrace finally reunited it's like wow i
thought you guys were killed it's like
wait what so these two are about to
learn about the campus massacre too for
now it seems like will's hanging out
with a big crew i can only assume these
are civic republic defectors that are
forming some sort of robin hood
rebellion so next season our crew of
plucky teenagers are going to take down
the dystopian civic republic and that's
how the walking dead world beyond season
one comes to an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you'd
love this recap check out the join
button and support the channel as a
member